# Technical documentation for contributors

## Brand vs app
The name of the brand, is defined as a subfolder.
To clarify things, we have 2 platforms for our apps: iOS and macOS.
Therefore each brand will end up with 2 apps (one for iOS and one for macOS).

## At the beginning we have the following:
- brand folders, each with an info.json file, and xcassets
- we have the `kiwix/kiwix-apple` code (as a seperate repository).

    We do not add any swift code to branded apps. All swift code related to branded apps is already included in `kiwix/kiwix-apple` repository, it is just "not used" by the Kiwix apps.

The `kiwix/kiwix-apple` repo is checked out into `/apple` folder, while the branded app repo (this one), is checked out under `/branded` folder.

Since most of the code and files are already in the `/apple` folder, we copy the `/branded` folder under it, so it ends up in: `/apple/branded`. We do the rest of the building from the `/apple` folder.

## What we need in order to build a branded app?

### A ZIM file
This needs to be downloaded from the url given in the `info.json`, and placed under the branded folder, eg: `/branded/dwds`

### A .plist file
The plist file is a list of settings, that is used by Xcode for the given target to be built. It is in a required xml format. This file is automatically generated as part of the CI build process. Not to be edited manually.

It is created under the folder with the same name, eg.: `dwds/dwds.plist`,
with the generated key values such as:
```
APP_STORE_ID = "id6473090365"
BRANDED_ABOUT_TEXT = "This will be displayed in the about section..."
BRANDED_ABOUT_WEBSITE = "https://www.dwds.de"
BRANDED_ZIM_FILE = "dwds_de_dictionary_nopic_2023-12"
SETTINGS_DEFAULT_EXTERNAL_LINK_TO = "alwaysLoad"
SETTINGS_SHOW_SEARCH_SNIPPET = NO
SETTINGS_SHOW_EXTERNAL_LINK_OPTION = NO
```

This way we end up with a plist file dedicated to a specific brand containing all the variables and values it needs.

## Enforced language?
If we use enforcing a language for a brand, what that really means is: we cannot use any of the localization folders contained in the main (kiwix/kiwix-apple) repo, instead we need to make a copy of a single language folder, eg: `de.lproj` and place it into the branded folder eg: `/branded/dwds/de.lproj` and include only that in the project.

(Note: only including / excluding does not work as the references to those language folders in the final Xcode project file will mess up. So we need a copy of the enforced lang folder in the branded apps folder, and only this way it works as expected.)

An extra step is required here, we also need to set the DEVELOPMENT_LANGUAGE to this value (eg. "de").

# A new branded_project.yml file
The main `kiwix/kiwix-apple` repo contains a `project.yml` file, it describes all the common build and project settings, and all the templates we re-use to create a final xcode project file, which is used to build the branded apps. At the end each branded app will be a separate target we can build.
Therefore we dynamically create the `branded_project.yml` file, which will import the `project.yml`, and sets up the new targets (one for each brand), it looks more or less, like this:
```
include:
- project.yml
targets:
  dwds:
    templates:
    - ApplicationTemplate
    settings:
      base:
        DEVELOPMENT_LANGUAGE: de
        DEVELOPMENT_TEAM: L7HWM3SP3L,
        INFOPLIST_FILE: branded/dwds/dwds.plist
        INFOPLIST_KEY_CFBundleDisplayName: DWDS
        INFOPLIST_KEY_UILaunchStoryboardName: SplashScreen.storyboard
        MARKETING_VERSION: 2023.12.3
        PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER: org.kiwix.branded.dwds
    sources:
    - path: branded/dwds
    - path: branded/SplashScreen.storyboard
      destinationFilters:
      - iOS
    - path: Support
      excludes:
      - '*.xcassets'
      - Info.plist
      - '**/*.lproj'
```
Once this is ready, we can call `xcodegen` on it:
```xcodegen -s branded_project.yml``` which will create the `Kiwix.xcodeproj`, and that will contain the original `Kiwix` target and all the branded targets as well eg. `dwds`.

## A splash screen
The splash screen file is going to be the same for each branded app (it is using a branded logo image from the branded xcassets). As you can see from the above example, this file's final location is going to be: `/apple/branded/SplashScreen.storyboard`.
